# Data Science Hackathon | Churn Prediction/Mitigation

The term "Churn" in a business name for the act of losing an acquired customer. By definition of churn can vary by industry as it is a business specific term:
- Healthcare:
    - Cured patients
    - Dead people
- Finance:
    - Inactive accounts
    - Invalidated cards
The reason why companies want to prevent/mitigate churn is because acquiring a new customer is always more expensive than retaining an existing one. Regarding the mitigation of churn, it cannot be avoided, solved or mitigated by a tech team only. Such a task is a cross-team job as the results gathered by tech teams need to be analysed and appropriate actions need to be taken.


## Customer Life Cycle
1. On-boarding: Customers enter this stage immediately after contract.
2. Service: Companies try to deliver on their commitment to the customer.
3. Safeguard: Identifying at-risk customer and engaging them proactively before the risk grows into a costlier retention problem.
4. Retention: A customer enters this stage when they are nearing the renewal date.
5. Winning back: Customers in this stage have not renewed the contract.

## Churn Prediction Metrics
The prediction of churn might be misleading. It is usually relatively easy to get high accuracy percentage, but due to lots of factors being involved the origins of it might be different. Thus, different sets of actions also need to be prepared/taken. In a system that is supposed to be used for churn data analysis/mitigation there are 2 types of data that need to be considered:
1. User Data Metrics: Data that is initially available, and it has a static nature;
2. Behavioural Metrics: Data that is generated by the behaviour of the user; 

## Churn Issues
1. Expensive retention: Winning back a customer who has made up their mind to cancel is usually expensive or futile.
2. Non-actionable churn: A big part of the structured churn is difficult to act on because of the nature of these churn drivers.
3. Ineffective retention channels: The medium of choice for these retention campaigns is email, which is a known low-conversion channel.
4. One-size-fits-all offers: The offers are not tailored or meaningful to most customers, mainly because the marketers lack the insights to design tailored offers. This leads to low conversion rates and a waste resources.
5. No regard for what is causing churn: Typical churn prevention efforts focus on symptoms, but tend to neglect what caused those symptoms in first place.
6. Neglect of customer lifetime value (CLV) growth: The typical intelligence that drives marketing efforts supports the prevention of revenue loss due to churn.

# Churn Mitigation Measures
1. Using the call center reason: The reason a customer calls the call center needs to be leveraged.
2. Product improvement:
    1. Make more of the best features;
    2. Make the best features easy to find;
3. Engagement marketing
    1. Promote the best features;
    2. Targeted product insights;
    3. Customer Risk Segmentation(Low, Mid, High);
    4. Multi-channel customer approach;
4. Pricing and packaging
    1. Differentiate pricing to provide value without discounting;
    2. Unit cost and unit value metrics
5. Customer Success and Support
    1. Help customer in need & engage proactively on the call.
    2. Identify failing customers.
    3. Forecast customer risk with regression and machine learning.
    4. Metric-driven customer conversations.
    5. Identify your best customer channels.